# wine-ratings-prediction-and-recommendation-system
Our data is sourced from Kaggle: Wine Reviews. The dataset contains 10 columns (country, description, designation, points, price, province, region_1, region_2, taster_name, taster_twitter_handle, title, variety, winery) and 130k rows of wine reviews. The author of the dataset originally scraped the data from WineEnthusiast on November 22nd, 2017. In the project, we performed topic modeling, sentiment analysis, year extraction, and one-hot encoding for feature engineering. To predict the rating of wines, we built a fine-tuned XGBoost regressor. In our final product, a wine recommendation system dashboard is built to recommend top wines based on user input

In order to successfully run all the notebooks submitted, please download all the files in the "data" folder on Google drive (link: https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1XWs2H5UkQEGMq9Hqcs_4mduzaKUgvST3?usp=sharing) to the local "data" folder. 

In our submitted project folder, the 'data' folder contains all the relevant data we used in our notebooks. The 'models' folder contains all the necessary saved models we trained and loaded in our notebooks. The 'EDA_wine.ipynb' is where we perform Exploratory Data Analysis and data cleaning and preprocessing. The 'Plot_map.ipynb' is where we plot distributions on a world map. The 'XGBOOST_wine.ipynb' is where we train and tune our XGBoost prediction model. The 'Dashboard.ipynb' is where our final product (wine rating prediction and recommendation system dashboard) is. The 'One New Data.docx' is a sample new user input to be used in our final dashboard. All other .ipynb and .py files are necessary notebooks and modules to be used in our notebooks.
